Han mahm joins us now from outside Thea
hospital and the latest air strikes just
go to show hany how the simplest of
tasks like looking for internet can mean
you lose your life in
Gaza yes saman this is has been part of
the the pattern of attacks we've
document documented monitor for the past
seven months the attacks on all means of
Life all Social Services have been
eliminated to include the services as
simple as being connected to the
internet or having your phone charged
properly a group of people were on Al
Jala Street that's at the one of the
major streets in Gaza City where at a
point trying to get internet connection
were targeted by a drone that's that
attack a drone that targeted him by
firing at least one missile at the crowd
three people reported killed right at
the spot and one more person reported uh
killed inside the hospital as soon as
arriving to the hospital that sustaining
critical injuries and could not make it
there are other injuries who were
transferred to the hospital but are
still at very critical conditions
particularly at this difficult time look
at a hospital that is largely running at
a very low capacity in terms of medical
staff and the medical supplies inside
the hospital unable to provide the
necessary needed uh medical uh support
whatsoever uh on a separate attacks the
Israeli military continue to strike and
to intensify its artillery Shilling as
well as the air strike on jabalia
refugee camp where more people reported
killed and causing a great deal of
Destruction including a journalist and
his family within the past couple hours
as journalists were inside the the
refugee camp documenting the Israeli
attacks on the public facility the
residential uh buildings were attacked
along with his with member of his family
were reported killed in an air strike
hany as we were coming to air we got
word that the United Nations is saying
the number of people displaced from RAF
in the last week or so we're not talking
about the total number of displaced
Palestinian just the number displaced
from rafah
is now
600,000 what does that look like on the
ground there
yes you know Sammy we're expecting the
number to increase dramatically within
the coming days as the Israeli military
is pushing deeper into the central part
of Rafa City where more than the 600,000
that we're looking at now fleeing graa
City are more people are going to be in
forced into this enforc displacement and
just to to give a background information
Rafa has been the The Refuge for 1.5
million displaced Palestinian for the
past 6 months who AFF flit the horror of
the war in the northern part in Gaza
City and more recently from Kan yunes
and the central area right now they
found themselves in the line of fire as
the Israeli military intensify its
attacks and and just to remember also
the past 6 months seven months haven't
been easy on ra the city was repeatedly
attacked despite declaring it as a safe
zone for the hundreds of thousand of
families who uh have been Sheltering uh
inside the city but right now those
600,000 people and the number is going
to increase are pouring into either
parts of khun that's the evacuation Zone
in Al maasi area but the vast majority
are uh are are coming to the central
area mainly in
into city which something that we look
right now in the streets and on all the
public facilities available on uh major
uh areas uh any available pocket of land
here is full of people right now there
are more people are pouring into the
city more people are using uh uh running
making the the the city run out of a
space running out of infrastructure that
is already overwhelmed the fact that
there is a serious lack of basic
necessities such as water supplies and
and and water and Food Supplies as well
as medical supplies making it very
difficult for this large number of
people to be
accommodated all right thanks so much
hany Mahmud
there now Israel's defense minister is
calling on prime minister Benyamin
Netanyahu to rule out any Israeli
postwar control over
Gaza I call on prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu to declare that Israel will
not have a civilian rule over the Gaza
Strip that there will be no Israeli
military Administration in the strip and
that a governing alternative to Hamas in
the Gaza Strip will be promoted
immediately Muhammad Jam jum joins us
now live from Aman in Jordan because the
Netanyahu government has shut down Al
jazer in Israel so Muhammad first of all
what are these statements tell us about
the severity of division in the cabinet
right
now well Samy there is a very public
argument playing out right now with
members of the war cabinet in Israel you
had that press conference that happened
uh just in the last few hours in Tel
Aviv in which yab Galant the Israeli
defense minister said among other things
um that the government needed to make a
decision about postwar governance in the
Gaza Strip he went on to say that he
would not support open-ended Israeli
military rule over over uh the Gaza
Strip uh he said I will not agree to the
establishment of a military government
in Gaza uh according to him a civilian
military regime in Gaza will become the
main effort in there and come at the
expense of other Arenas uh we will pay
for it in Blood and victims and it will
come at a heavy economic cost he also
said that soon after the War Began that
he had promoted a plan for a new
Palestinian Administration in Gaza that
was not linked to Hamas but that he had
gotten no response from various Israeli
cabinet ministers and Forum so he's
clearly very frustrated about this and
saying there needs to be a post-war plan
and there should not just be under
military rule shortly after that you had
a response from the Prime Minister from
Benjamin Netanyahu Benjamin Netanyahu
said as long as Hamas remains no other
actor will run Gaza certainly not the
Palestinian Authority and then after
that you had uh Benny gance who is a
member of a war cabinet a former Defense
Minister in Israel and he publicly
stated that um Galant meaning the
defense minister speaks the truth that
it is the leadership's responsibility to
do the right thing for the country at
all costs so these are three members of
the war cabinet in Israel at a critical
time uh having a public dispute about
what needs to happen going forward you
have been aant backing yav Galant yav
Galant arguing with um with Benjamin
Netanyahu and it's all really just going
to show how complicated the situation is
right now um and how the divisions are
being laid bare throughout the Israeli
government Sammy and all of this coming
after we've heard doubts from us
officials Muhammad about an Israeli
outright Israeli Victory about an
Israeli post-war plan is that some of
that building up to kind of undermine
Netanyahu
now well this certainly looks as though
yoav Galant is heeding the advice of the
Americans and over the course of the
last few days when you look across the
Israeli media landscape we are seeing
more and more quotes from Israeli
military officials unnamed officials but
officials nonetheless speaking to
Israeli media expressing grave concerns
about where things stand when it comes
to the war and the decision- making of
the Prime Minister on the one hand these
military officials have said that
they're very worried about the
relationship going forward with the us
that they feel that there may have been
a fracture and they're worried that it
will only grow even though publicly the
defense minister has said that any
disagreements with the US will be
handled behind closed doors we're
hearing other military officials say
they're worried that the relationship
with the US is close to potentially
being broken they're also concerned that
if there are further weapon shipments
from the US that are halted that that
would impact not just the war on Gaza
but also might impact future conflicts
in other Arenas and on other fronts uh
and they're also just concerned some of
them have said that they are concerned
that the prime minister is prolonging
the conflict in order to continue to
survive politically because once the war
is over um there is so much outrage of
the intelligence failure that led to the
October 7th attack that they believe
that the prime minister's days would be
numbered so a lot of concern for
military officials these days certainly
what we're hearing now today from yov
Galant certainly indicates that perhaps
at the highest levels of the military uh
in Israel they are concerned about what
the US is advising and that perhaps they
should be listening closer than
Netanyahu is doing at this time Sammy
thank you so much Muhammad Jam jum there
make sure to subscribe to our channel to
get the latest news from Al jazer